tinygradWe write and maintain tinygrad, the fastest growing neural
network frameworkIt's extremely simple, and breaks down the most complexnetworks into 3 OpTypesElementwiseOps are UnaryOps, BinaryOps, and TernaryOps.
They operate on 1-3 tensors and run elementwise.
example: SQRT, LOG2, ADD, MUL, WHERE, etc...ReduceOps operate on one tensor and return a smaller tensor.
example: SUM, MAXMovementOps are virtual ops that operate on one tensor and move the data around
Copy-free with ShapeTracker.
example: RESHAPE, PERMUTE, EXPAND, etc...But how...where are your CONVs and MATMULs? Read the code to solve this mystery.Work at tiny corp
We are now funded and hiring full time software engineers. Very talented interns okay.
See our bounty page to judge if you might be a good fit. Bounties pay you while judging that fit.
We are also hiring for operations and hardware, but if you haven't contributed to tinygrad your application won't be considered.

tinybox (now shipping)We sell a computer called the tinybox. It comes in red, green, and soon, exa.red v2green v2 blackwellexaboxFP16 (FP32 acc) FLOPS778 TFLOPS3086 TFLOPS~1 EXAFLOPGPU Model4x 9070XT4x RTX PRO 6000 Blackwell720x RDNA5 AT0 XLGPU RAM64 GB384 GB25,920 GBGPU RAM bandwidth2560 GB/s7168 GB/s1244 TB/sGPU link bandwidthfull fabric PCIe 4.0 x16full fabric PCIe 5.0 x16full fabric 400 GbECPU32 core AMD EPYC32 core AMD GENOA120x 32 core AMD GENOASystem RAM128 GB192 GB23,040 GBSystem RAM bandwidth204.8 GB/s460.8 GB/s55.2 TB/sDisk size2 TB fast NVMe4 TB raid + 1 TB boot480 TB raidDisk read bandwidth7.3 GB/s59.3 GB/s7.1 TB/sNetworking2x 1GbE + OCP3.02x 10GbE + OCP3.0 PCIe53.2 TB/s scale outNoise< 50 dB, 31 low speed fans65 db @ 10 metersPower Supplyone 1600W, 100V~240V2x 1600W, 100V~240V600 kW, 200V~240VBMCAST2500AST2600customOperating SystemUbuntu 24.04Dimensions12U, 16.25" deep, 60-90 lbs20x8x8.5 ft, 20,000 lbsRack?Freestanding or rack mountconcrete slabDriver QualityGoodGreatfunctions as single GPUSHIPPINGIN STOCK - $12,000IN STOCK - $65,000coming 2027 - ~$10M
for updates on products and inventory, sign up for the mailing listFAQWhat is a tinybox?It is a very powerful computer for deep learning, and likely the best performance/$. It was benchmarked in MLPerf Training 4.0 vs computers that cost 10x as much. And of course, anything that can train can do inference.How do I get a tinybox?Place an order through the links above. The factory is up and running, and it will ship within one week of us receiving the payment. Currently offering pickup in San Diego + shipping worldwide.Where can I learn more about the tinybox?We have a lot of content on our Twitter, we also have a tinybox docs page and a #tinybox discord channel.Can I customize my tinybox?In order to keep prices low and quality high, we don't offer any customization to the box or ordering process. Of course, after you buy the tinybox, it's yours and you are welcome to do whatever you want with it!Can you fill out this supplier onboarding form?In order to keep prices low and quality high, we don't offer any customization to the box or ordering process. If you aren't capable of ordering through the website, I'm sorry but we won't be able to help.Can I pay with something besides wire transfer?In order to keep prices low and quality high, we don't offer any customization to the box or ordering process. Wire transfer is the only accepted form of payment.Can I get a W-9 for this purchase?Yes, you can download that here.Is tinygrad used anywhere?tinygrad is used in openpilot to run the driving model on the Snapdragon 845 GPU. It replaces SNPE, is faster, supports loading onnx files, supports training, and allows for attention (SNPE only allows fixed weights).Is tinygrad inference only?No! It supports full forward and backward passes with autodiff. This is implemented at a level of abstraction higher than the accelerator specific code, so a tinygrad port gets you this for free.How can I use tinygrad for my next ML project?Follow the installation instructions on the tinygrad repo. It has a similar API to PyTorch, yet simpler and more refined. Less stable though while tinygrad is in alpha, so be warned, though it's been fairly stable for a while.When will tinygrad leave alpha?When we can reproduce a common set of papers on 1 NVIDIA GPU 2x faster than PyTorch. We also want the speed to be good on the M1. ETA, Q2 next year.How is tinygrad faster than PyTorch?For most use cases it isn't yet, but it will be. It has three advantages:
It compiles a custom kernel for every operation, allowing extreme shape specialization.All tensors are lazy, so it can aggressively fuse operations.The backend is 10x+ simpler, meaning optimizing one kernel makes everything fast.Where is tinygrad development happening?On GitHub and on DiscordHow can the tiny corp work for me?Email me, george@tinygrad.org. We are looking for contracts and sponsorships to improve various aspects of
tinygrad.How can I work for the tiny corp?See hiring above. Contributions to tinygrad on GitHub
always
welcome, and a good way to get hired.Can I invest in the tiny corp?Invest with your PRs.What's the goal of the tiny corp?To accelerate. We will commoditize the petaflop and enable AI for everyone.